Lung Cancer is one of the most deadly cancer in the world. It has a high demise rate and its cases are increasing day by day in throughout world due to people lifestyle. Cancer diagnosis and treatment has been one of the most difficult problems that humanity has encountered in past few year. If it has not been detected at early stage then the patient survival chance will be very less. Detecting lung cancer at early stage Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD) has become an indispensable tool for supporting radiologists' CT interpretations. Its speedup the whole process of analysis of cancer. This paper describes a automatic method for classifying tumours seen on computed tomography scans of lung cancer as malignant or benign using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). For classification of computed tomography scan we use thresholding segmentation as initial segmentation to segment out lung tissue from computed tomography in CNN but this seems to be inadequate so that we modified U-Net trained to predict nodule. CT scans with segmented lungs were fetch into Convolutional Neural Networks to prove the CT scan as positive or negative for lung cancer based on the location. CAD system performance depend on various factor several training and testing stage, required lots of label data for training.
A more realistic approach would be using other datasets (such as LUNA16) which have lung nodule location information. We can then train a neural network on such dataset (most of them use U-Net), and use the resulting model on our dataset to find possible nodule locations to reduce the search space. In fact, previous researches almost all focus on detecting potential malignant pulmonary nodules instead of predicting cancer directly.
Here I only use the DSB2017 dataset itself, which does not contain any information other than whether the patients have lung cancers or not. So, the code is only a demonstration of how to preprocess such dataset and how to apply 3D CNN directly on it, and I wouldn't expect its performance to be much better than just random guessing due to the lack of data (but it still helped us to get in the top 10% on the competition leaderboard).
